
h2. Recovering a deleted file

<pre>
rm app.js              # delete a file
git co app.js          # recover the deleted file

git rm app.js          # git delete a file
git reset HEAD app.js  # recover that file
</pre>

List of files deleted using rm

<pre>
rm *.txt                     # delete all files with extension .txt
git ls-files --deleted (-d)  # get the list of files deleted from index
</pre>


h2. Resolving a conflict in merge or rebase

You are doing either rebase or merge and you have a conflict. It is a complicted conflict and all you want is your version to take precedence over the branch stuff.

Once the conflict message comes up then you can do

<pre>
git co --ours foo.txt
</pre>
 
and foo.txt will have my version.

Similary if I want their version to take precedence then the command would be 

<pre>
git co --theirs foo.txt
</pre>


h2. git is too slow

<pre>
git count-objects
git gc
git count-objects
</pre>

h2. You have local changes to 'foo.txt'; cannot switch branches.

You might have seen similar message before. I get that message sometimes and sometimes I do not get that message. Here is an analysis.

I have one single file <tt>foo.txt</tt> .

<pre>
$ git co -b lab
$ git co master
$ echo change something in foo.txt > foo.txt

$ git status
modified foo.txt

$ git co lab  
Switched to lab
</pre>

In the above case I am able to checkout lab. That is because the checked in file foo.txt is same in both master and in lab.

<pre>
$ git co master
git add .
git commit -m 'changed foo'
</pre>

Now I have committed a change in foo.txt in master. So now there is a difference between foo.txt of master and foo.txt of lab.

Now change something in foo.txt and do not stage it.

<pre>
$ echo change something2 > foo.txt
$ git co lab
error: You have local changes to 'foo.txt'; cannot switch branches.
</pre>

git complains only if the committed verion of the changed file is different between the two branches. Another way to look at it is if

<pre>
git diff master lab foo.txt
</pre>

is empty then changing foo.txt will cause error.

h2. Wht git log foo.txt is slow

git does not track changes at a file level. So in this case git has to check with every single commit in the repository to find if a commit changed a file or not. Basically git runs

<pre>
git show --name-only SHA1_HASH
</pre>

on every single commit and hence it is slow.

"reference":https://git.wiki.kernel.org/index.php/GitFaq#Why_is_.22git_log_.3Cfilename.3E.22_slow.3F

h2. Looking at the previous version of a file

If you just want to look at a previous version of file then git show will do the job.

<pre>
git show v1.15:foo.txt
</pre>

If you want to replace current file with previous file then use git checkout.

<pre>
git co v1.15:foo.txt
</pre>
